What is PaaS and how is it useful in CI/CD-driven cloud deployment?

PaaS is a cloud computing model that provides a complete isolated environment for developing and managing applications. It provides infrastructure such as servers, storage, and networking, and software, hardware, and development tools for building, testing, deploying, and hosting applications. It allows developers to focus on building and improving applications rather than managing infrastructure.

PaaS is useful in CI/CD driven cloud deployment because many PaaS platforms support CI/CD pipelines and streamline the management of cloud services. It simplifies the entire application lifecycle by providing preconfigured development environments and integrated tools. This accelerates the development process and makes collaboration easier as developers can work in provided environments. Applications can be tested directly within the PaaS platform to ensure there are no errors. PaaS also provides infrastructure maintenance, taking care of server maintenance, security updates, and software patch management. PaaS is scalable as it dynamically adds and removing resources based on workload, which helps optimizes cost and maintains performance during traffic spikes. PaaS is also cost efficient because it follows a consumption based pricing model and it efficiently allocates resources via virtualization and resource pooling. PaaS also provides monitoring and analytics tools, allowing developers to track performance and user activity, providing insights for further optimization and improvements. 
